
High priority
-------------

1. Log all server and basic access messages to syslog and keep verbose
   logging (headers,bodies) in var/log/openxcap/

2. Log the whole HTTP URI as seen by the client

3. Add a server configuration option called safe_rls_documents default true
   to check the sanity of RLS documents. To avoid loops and prevent dos
   attacks, RLS documents uploaded by end-users must obbey these rules:

   a) the service-uri must be formated as: sip:listname-buddies@domain.com
   b) the one elements must not point to another service-uri
   c) External references to resource-lists or other http URIs are not allowed
   d) RLS services document must contain only individual sip uri entries

4. Validation after put/delete attribute

5. Add SIP client support to OpenXCAP to send PUBLISH for xcap-diff event. 
   Modify OpenSIPS to perform refreshWatchers() when the PUBLISH is received.


Low priority
------------

1. Add xcap-directory application to list the documents for a given user

2. Allow port in root= settings, thus making port= parameter unnecessary.
   Make sure that when listening on non-default port valid URIs are logged (see prev. issue)
   Inside, always use xcap root with port (if non-default), i.e. put port in logs, xcap-diff docs

3. Change default port for https:// to 443 (currently is 8000). Keep the
   default port for http:// 8000 for backward compatibility.

4. Test suite: validate after each GET, test well-formedness of the received
   elements.

5. Finish global/users: test that all possible combinations (global/users
   GET/PUT/DELETE each app) return reasonable error

6. global + digest auth = not implemented

7. URIs in att_value. Should differently encoded be considered equal?
   Note, that there're 2 encodings: percent-encoding, and xml attribute encoding (i.e. &quot; and friends)
   Resource Lists RFC features example document with http URI that has percent-encoding in it.
   Does that mean that to match against it, percents in the URI should be themselves percent-encoded?
   Or XCAP server should use its knowledge about the app and figure out that URIs are equivalent.
   This may be unreliable if it's unknown whether this URI was percent-encoded or not. Why
   that URI was percent encoded in the first place, why not paste it in the documents as it is, using
   XML escaping where necessary.
   Make few simple xpath expressions that include that URI as att_value and post it SIMPLE mailing list.

8. Errors from twisted are text/html and from xcap are text/plain: use one
   (text/plain?)


